#Red

1. **Definition and Basics**
    - What is SQL Injection?
    - How does SQL Injection work?
2. **Types of SQL Injections**
    - In-band SQLi (Classic SQLi)
    - Inferential SQLi (Blind SQLi)
    - Out-of-band SQLi

## **Definition and Basics**
### What is SQL injection (SQLi)?
SQL injection (SQLi) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to interfere with the queries that an application makes to its database. This can allow an attacker to view data that they are not normally able to retrieve. This might include data that belongs to other users, or any other data that the application can access. In many cases, an attacker can modify or delete this data, causing persistent changes to the application's content or behavior.

In some situations, an attacker can escalate a SQL injection attack to compromise the underlying server or other back-end infrastructure. It can also enable them to perform denial-of-service attacks.

### How does SQL Injection work?
**Mechanism:** SQL Injection exploits the improper handling of input data within SQL queries. When user inputs are not properly sanitized or validated, an attacker can craft inputs that alter the structure of the SQL query, leading to unintended actions being executed on the database.

**Example Scenario**: Consider a web application with a login form where users enter their username and password. The application constructs a SQL query to check the provided credentials against the stored data.
```sql
SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = 'user_input' AND password = 'user_password'
```

If the input fields are not sanitized, an attacker could enter the following as the username:
```sql
' OR '1'='1
```

This changes the query to:
```sql
SELECT * FROM users WHERE username = '' OR '1'='1' AND password = 'user_password';
```

The condition `'1'='1'` is always true, which could grant the attacker unauthorized access by bypassing the password check.

## **Types of SQL Injections**

## **Practice and Examples**

- [[Portswigger Labs|Portswigger]]
